_pages/research/synthesize-research.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /research/synthesize-research/
layout: post
title: Process what you heard
sidenav: research
sticky_sidenav: true
subnav:
  - text: Debrief
    href: '#debrief-after-each-research-session'
  - text: Synthesize
    href: '#synthesize-the-round-of-research'
  - text: Document and share
    href: '#document-and-share-what-you-learned'
  - text: Make decisions
    href: '#decide-what-product-decisions-to-make-based-on-the-research'
---

## Debrief after each research session

Immediately after the session, set up a few minutes with any research team members who were in the interview. If it’s not possible to debrief immediately, do this by the end of the day, or within 24 hours.

During this debrief, discuss surprises and reflect on what you heard. Make sure to document a few key takeaways in writing, or by highlighting notes. It can be helpful to highlight these (often quotes from the user) at the top of the notes document.

If you promised the user any follow-up communications, identify who will send them and when.

**Resources:**
- [GOV.UK Service Manual: Analyse a research session](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/user-research/analyse-a-research-session)

## Synthesize the round of research

After you’ve completed all sessions, it’s time to rigorously synthesize what you heard and learned. Synthesis can involve different activities, but is primarily a time for all people involved in conducting research to collaboratively gather insights.

Synthesis is important to do collaboratively for a few reasons: to make this work visible to the partner, to build consensus within the team, to harness the perspectives of different listeners, and to correct for biases that can arise (especially if not every research team member was in every interview). It can help to have a clear facilitator to guide the group.

The synthesis process generally involves:  
- Gathering takeaways from each session into a single document/space (For instance, this might mean pulling each key takeaway onto a sticky note on a Mural board.)
- Some way to track either individual users (i.e. each user gets a different color sticky) or user groups (i.e. each major user group gets a color)
- Grouping, sorting, and discussing takeaways:
    - Work through the big themes, notice which things were heard in multiple sessions, and identify any outliers.
    - Circle back multiple times to make sure the groupings actually make sense to everyone. Don't be afraid to rearrange and regroup. This can help identify new themes and insights.
- Naming themes or insights; this helps with organization and forces more clarity. Statements or sentences (rather than words/phrases) can help work toward useful content that will become part of a report or summary.

Avoid including people in synthesis who didn’t participate in any research sessions. If you do need to include team members who weren’t able to at least observe research sessions, make sure they understand that their role will be limited to listening and/or asking questions.

**Resources:**
- [GOV.UK Blog: How we do research analysis in agile](https://userresearch.blog.gov.uk/2014/06/05/how-we-do-research-analysis-in-agile/)
- [Connect the Dots](https://civicservicedesign.com/connect-the-dots-794fda8f10d2)

## Document and share what you learned

After collaborative synthesis, a few team members (often the UX designer + content designer or UX designer + PM) can further boil down findings into a report, presentation, or summary document.

- This document should cover not just what you learned, but why it matters.
- It’s more important that this document be true and useful, rather than comprehensive.
- All research team members should review this document to make sure it rings true and accurately represents the research as they understood it.
- Put this document someplace where future team members can find it!

## Decide what product decisions to make based on the research

After each round of research, the whole team — led by the PM — should identify how the research changes the next sprint’s work. This could include new bugs identified, new features to explore, or a different design focus.

Commit message:

Rewording last sentence in Synthesis paragraph
Based on Corey's notes and the conversation in the research guild

_pages/research/synthesize-research.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /research/synthesize-research/
layout: post
title: Process what you heard
sidenav: research
sticky_sidenav: true
subnav:
  - text: Debrief
    href: '#debrief-after-each-research-session'
  - text: Synthesize
    href: '#synthesize-the-round-of-research'
  - text: Document and share
    href: '#document-and-share-what-you-learned'
  - text: Make decisions
    href: '#decide-what-product-decisions-to-make-based-on-the-research'
---

## Debrief after each research session

Immediately after the session, set up a few minutes with any research team members who were in the interview. If it’s not possible to debrief immediately, do this by the end of the day, or within 24 hours.

During this debrief, discuss surprises and reflect on what you heard. Make sure to document a few key takeaways in writing, or by highlighting notes. It can be helpful to highlight these (often quotes from the user) at the top of the notes document.

If you promised the user any follow-up communications, identify who will send them and when.

**Resources:**
- [GOV.UK Service Manual: Analyse a research session](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/user-research/analyse-a-research-session)

## Synthesize the round of research

After you’ve completed all sessions, it’s time to rigorously synthesize what you heard and learned. Synthesis can involve different activities, but is primarily a time for all people involved in conducting research to collaboratively gather insights.

Synthesis is important to do collaboratively for a few reasons: to make this work visible to the partner, to build consensus within the team, to harness the perspectives of different listeners, and to correct for biases that can arise (especially if not every research team member was in every interview). It can help to have a clear facilitator to guide the group.

The synthesis process generally involves:  
- Gathering takeaways from each session into a single document/space (For instance, this might mean pulling each key takeaway onto a sticky note on a Mural board.)
- Some way to track either individual users (i.e. each user gets a different color sticky) or user groups (i.e. each major user group gets a color)
- Grouping, sorting, and discussing takeaways:
    - Work through the big themes, notice which things were heard in multiple sessions, and identify any outliers.
    - Circle back multiple times to make sure the groupings actually make sense to everyone. Don't be afraid to rearrange and regroup. This can help identify new themes and insights.
- Naming themes or insights; this helps with organization and forces more clarity. Statements or sentences (rather than words/phrases) can help work toward useful content that will become part of a report or summary.

Be thoughtful about who you include in synthesis sessions. The more people you include — particularly if you’re bringing in folks who didn’t experience the interviews — the more carefully you need to design and moderate the synthesis.

**Resources:**
- [GOV.UK Blog: How we do research analysis in agile](https://userresearch.blog.gov.uk/2014/06/05/how-we-do-research-analysis-in-agile/)
- [Connect the Dots](https://civicservicedesign.com/connect-the-dots-794fda8f10d2)

## Document and share what you learned

After collaborative synthesis, a few team members (often the UX designer + content designer or UX designer + PM) can further boil down findings into a report, presentation, or summary document.

- This document should cover not just what you learned, but why it matters.
- It’s more important that this document be true and useful, rather than comprehensive.
- All research team members should review this document to make sure it rings true and accurately represents the research as they understood it.
- Put this document someplace where future team members can find it!

## Decide what product decisions to make based on the research

After each round of research, the whole team — led by the PM — should identify how the research changes the next sprint’s work. This could include new bugs identified, new features to explore, or a different design focus.
